# Running a half marathon

Going in I was pretty optimistic despite having more than a week of absolutely no training before the race. Even before that, my training schedule was highly irregular. I got to week 4 of the Runner's World training plan I found...and never went back on it (because of stress due to REU). Well shit happens I guess. Later on, probably around what was supposed to be the week 8 of the plan, I knew I had to increase my mileage PR by some amount. The farther distance I had run so far was 6, which isn't even 1/2 of the half marathon. So I decided to go on this "every other day" running plan which would build up my farther distance to 10 miles (since that was the longest run on the plan). I thought that if I ran at least 10 miles before the race, I should be good. And to keep up the pattern, I didn't do it!!!! Not surprising at this point. But I was able to get to 8 miles.  

So the day before the race and before all this procrastination comes into fruition, I finally checked what the cutoff time is for the half marathon: 3 hours 15 minutes. Alright, let me check what average pace I need to run to make that time....around 14-ish min/mile, let me check how fast I ran that 8 miles....15 min and 30 seconds. Great, I'm going to have to run not only farther but faster than I have been "training"! May my soul rest in peace.  

----

Enough prelude, let's get into the real story: the half marathon. My plan was start conservative (run at a pace where I can breathe easily) for the first two laps (~6.5 miles) and blast off, as in run faster, for the final two laps. Least to say, I got through the first two laps. I however did not blast off. My entire lower body, including my core, was not having it and decided "yea let's just stop working". Each step felt like I was dragging my legs in front of me and my back couldn't even hold itself straight. The pain wasn't so much repository than it was in the joints and muscles. For the last lap was on and off walking (not very frequent though), and the last mile was half walk and run. Another thing about the race are the hills. Learning my lesson from the 10K back in last November, I knew that I would need to slow down if I didn't want to burn out early. But also from the 10K, I knew that going downhill, gravity will let me wind up my legs enough to sprint to the finish. Lucky for me that worked out again, and I finish with a time of roughly 2:53.40.  

But wait, there's more! The lap layout was not the same as the 10K, there was an extra "appendage" that needed to be run for three laps. I ended up skipping a good part of that extension for the first lap, but sort of, made up for it by running around a circle mid-course. Comparing the distances, I knew it wasn't enough. So technically I didn't run the full course....but my Coros Pace 2 does say I ran 13.22 miles. I feel a bit pissed off about that slip-up, and I actually was during the race. I don't know if that slight anger helped me (I think it raised my heart rate at the least) through the pain in the beginning, but either way I say I did the race. Kind of.

---

Other things to record: I didn't really have a set pace to run at, but looking at my Coros Pace 2, I guesstimated that I should be running ~175bpm for my conservative pace. I stayed within that range, and eventually increased it to 180-190bpm for the last three laps.  

*Might update this post with pictures and links later.*